[country music]
Good morning, guys.
Today we have
quite an interesting road trip ahead of us.
We're going through the Arkansas Delta.
One of the poorest parts of the country.
It's seen a huge population decline
and an increase in crime.
A lot of agriculture is still happening
but just less people working.
More machines, less people.
One side of the street
falling apart in Marianna.
One rising.
Oh, look at that beauty.
Marianna has got some gems.
Huh.
Okay. This is a pretty
dangerous place statistically.
But coming in, I'm actually
quite surprised by what I'm seeing.
We have a nice square here.
Get out and walk around.
Talk to some people.
-How you doing, sir?
-Good. How you doing?
-You live here in Marianna?
-Yeah.
How's it going?
-I'm good. I'm Justin.
-Peter.
You're from here?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
Born and raised.
-How are things these days?
It's okay. It's peaceful.
Good to hear. Is this your shop?
No, no. My godmama operates that shop.
-Your godmama?
-It's not really a lot to do,
but you got to make stuff to do.
-I do farming.
-Oh, that's cool.
So, I love it. It's very rewarding.
-Farming is very rewarding?
-Yeah.
And I volunteer at a food pantry, yeah.
I'm gonna walk around, sir.
-Nice to meet you.
-You too. Appreciate it.
You can see wealth from the past
in those houses
when we were coming into town.
In buildings like this.
This is cotton territory.
And the money flowed in here.
There's a port here,
the Mississippi right over there.
The port was thriving.
Marianna had its heyday.
And I gotta say
it looks better than I thought.
Because on paper it went from
roughly 6,200 people back in 1980
to 3,200 right now.
And crime…
Two homicides last year,
two homicides the year before.
When you have 3,200 people,
that puts the percentages up big time.
Poverty levels here are pretty high.
One of the highest in the country.
So, hey, good job here in Marianna
keeping the downtown nice
'cause you wouldn't know
just by coming in here.
But it's roughly 56%
fall below the poverty line.
"In loving memory of
the Lee County's Confederate soldiers."
That is Robert E. Lee up there.
"No braver bled For a brighter land.
No brighter land had a cause so grand."
That will fire up the comments for sure.
[woman mumbling angrily]
-What's that?
I got a freaking piece of paper
for a charge
that they did not give me
when they arrested me.
Then on top of that, I done filed
three different f*cking incident reports
about my car that Preston Lane stole.
And they had no record of it.
-I'm fixin' to sue the…
-What happened to the car?
He took it to the salvage yard.
He stole it.
Him and two crackheads.
They pulled it off my friend's property.
-Do you want this on a video?
Man, like I'm just at the point
where I'm so sick of Marianna.
They are useless. I grew up in Atlanta.
Bro, the stuff people get away with
down here is really like unheard of.
-What's it like right now?
-Bro, it's terrible.
I freaking always hated Marianna.
And ever since I've been an adult,
I really hate Marianna.
I've gotten three different tickets
in this stupid a** town
for something that you charged me with
when you put me in handcuffs…
-So you're totally innocent? You didn't…
I didn't do anything!
I called them because
somebody put me out the house.
I was bleeding,
had freaking handcuffs on my arm.
I have a problem with my wrist,
they had to do freaking x-rays.
And they said that
I was being like unreasonable.
I stay in Montana.
I came back down here.
-I just lost my brother yesterday.
-I'm sorry.
I'm just at the point where
I'm just so over Arkansas as a whole.
I only came to file my divorce.
Freaking I lost my brother in the mix.
He just died like, bro, yesterday.
And then on top of that,
I got arrested for some bullshit.
I came down here
to make sure my name was clear.
I just want to drop my marital status.
That was it.
I wanted to be an officer.
And watching them here,
it puts a bad name
on any type of freaking law enforcement.
Marianna, they need to shut down
the police station
and just give it to the sheriffs.
In situations like that, when you're not
privy to all the information.
Well, I have no idea what happened.
So, just showing you
what I'm running into, you guys.
See some of these
old buildings have come down.
And then we have this place.
A lot of flags.
You were born and raised in Marianna?
Went to college
and got a degree and moved back home.
That's cool. So this is your shop?
Getting ready for all the summer holidays.
I have all sorts of baby gifts,
patriotic decor,
and just odd and end things you might need.
-Any small business is tough.
Is this hard to make it fly in this town?
It has its challenges.
I just opened in November.
-I taught school for 14 years.
-Okay.
I just opened.
-You're another teacher that's left.
-Mm-hmm.
I meet you guys all the time.
I'm sure you do. In droves.
-In droves.
That's the story across the country.
-And I hate to say it, but it is.
-It's not just here. It's everywhere.
A lot of young teachers
getting into small businesses like this.
I do keep my teaching license and keep
the hours, keep my license current.
-Okay.
Hopefully I don't ever
have to use it again.
-Really? Did you teach locally?
Within like 30 minutes of here.
I never taught here in Marianna.
-It's just become
more challenging over the years?
And I have my master's actually.
I wasn't in the classroom.
I had gifted and talented.
So kids… filtered in and out all day.
And it's still…
Still not the same today as it was
when I started 14 years ago.
-It's changed that much in 14 years?
-Yeah.
My great uncle, who's 91,
bought my great aunt's
engagement ring here 70 years ago.
-Maybe a little more than that.
-So it was a jewelry shop.
And then it closed
and it was empty for a while.
And it had started falling in
because of that building.
And the county trust got a grant
and they redid this building
and I was able to just walk in.
-That's cool.
And it's on the National Register
of Historic Places. That's so awesome.
It's a good little town to live in.
I love it.
We have a really good chief of police now.
-Okay.
And he runs a tight ship.
So things have been
really good since he got here.
So… When did he get here?
I want to say within
the last six months to a year maybe.
And then he and the sheriff,
the county sheriff, work closely together
and they both keep things
under control pretty well. So…
-All right. Name of your business?
It's Toodles Flowers & Gifts.
-Toodles Flowers & Gifts.
-Yes, sir.
-Ma'am. Thank you.
-You're welcome.
-Take care.
All right, guys.
Just showing you what I see.
I'm gonna give you the good, the bad,
and everything in between.
Never try to sugarcoat.
Never try to put a place under the bus.
And look,
I'm here for a short period of time.
I'm coming in for a couple hours at most.
No expert on this town,
but can take a little temperature
with the camera
through the people we meet.
And you guys can take it from there.
This is interesting travel for me at least,
I think for a lot of you.
If you're in Arkansas
and you want to cruise through the Delta,
these towns are,
they create a feel… Ugh!
Like falling in a pothole…
They create a feel.
And most of the people usually
are pretty cool.
Look at this.
I've never seen a hearse like that.
Okay, sir.
So what are you doing here in Marianna?
I'm a mental health therapist.
I work with children ages 5 to 18.
-How's it going?
That's a two-fold question.
I love mental health.
I love bringing awareness to mental health.
We need so much more awareness.
-Okay.
Especially with our children,
and especially in rural communities
with the stereotypes of mental health.
In that sense, I love what I do
because I love bringing awareness,
but it also makes me sad
to see so much mental health.
-What are the kids needing
right now from what you see?
It would go beyond the kids.
I would say we would have
to start with the parents.
Parenting classes,
courses, skills, resources,
especially in our
underdeveloped rural counties.
They definitely need resources.
Many of our children have not been exposed
to the culture of things
that's right there within our own state.
-I just met a former teacher,
and I hate to say it.
I hear that story
all the time all over the country.
Younger, former teachers.
-Do you see that?
-I do.
And they're just burning out or what?
-Yes.
-Okay.
What do you do?
How do you fix something
that's bigger than you?
-You're feeling ineffective.
-Right.
So it's a collaboration between
home life obviously and school life.
And school life.
-Not one can do it all.
-They need each other.
-Yeah.
So if the teachers
have students where the home life
isn't so good and then
a lot of weight comes on them
and vice versa.
And you know, we see it in Hollywood
with movies where they do things like,
where children have basketball, taekwondo.
You know, we see it,
but we don't have those.
You know, we have a basketball team
at the school,
but it's got what, 12, 15 players?
Where the rest of them go?
Or what if I'm not…
How do you get them motivated
'cause it's a personal decision.
Kids gotta want…
They need the leadership,
but they have to want to do it, right?
And they have to know that it exists.
For example, if I'm a teenage boy,
but I'm not good at sports,
what do I do?
I don't know anything about poetry.
I've never been exposed to it.
-I don't know anything about skateboarding.
-Yeah, okay.
I've never surfed before.
You know, so a lot of times
they're not exposed.
-Bad news,
that might not be happening out here.
-I'm sure we're not gonna surf.
-The surfing part.
-Surfing the delta.
-Yeah, yeah.
You know, but I think a lot of times
they would know that they have these
hidden talents if they could be exposed.
-There's a lot of talent out here.
-It is.
I was just in Little Rock,
south of the line in the so-called hood.
A lot of talent in there.
And they just need like that
connection to the thing.
Exactly.
-It's the mindset too,
knowing that it's possible.
And there's several components,
they need someone that believe in them.
Johnny's parent may not know how.
Not that she's a bad parent, but she just
may not know how to be a support system.
So sometimes mentoring
is good for both the kid and the parent.
-It's a deep problem.
But people like you
I really respect for helping.
So, and I got to say on a side note,
people are super friendly here.
Everyone's waving.
You know, a lot of smiles.
Southern hospitality is a real thing.
-Real thing.
-It's a real thing. [chuckles]
The Lord said your children
should be obedient to their parents
and show them respect.
But you also should
show your children respect.
You should invest in your children.
You should teach them
and show them the way.
Let them know all about the Savior,
the Lord thy God.
And show them the way.
Because without God, you can't make it.
-You get valet service here?
You also need the…
The world teaching.
Also, we need the spiritual teaching.
-So you think we need more of that?
-Yes, I do.
-Okay.
Because let me tell you something.
There's a lot of these children
walking around here,
got mothers, and don't even know
nothing about the Savior.
You understand me?
And they just doing what they see they
parents doing because they have no teacher.
Nobody to tell them.
Show them right from wrong.
These young people out here,
they walk and they go here and there.
They don't have nobody
to tell them that they're loved.
to tell them that you can make it.
They don't have nobody
to teach them, you know,
to show them the way
like my mother taught me.
Now see my father
weren't in my life until I were 14.
But my mother taught me what was wrong,
what was right, how to work.
I started working
at five years old in the field.
I might not have a college education,
but I always worked and made my own money.
My mama said your own money
is better than anybody's money.
But my grandkids and my children too.
And I have grandchildren that graduate
college is going to be a lawyer,
going to be an accountant,
going to be doctors.
I got all that going on
on my great-grandchildren's side.
I don't mind working,
making me a dollar or two.
I don't have to go out there
and beg nobody for nothing.
You hear what I'm saying?!
I'm taking care of my great-grandchildren!
Glory to God! Hallelujah!
Thank you, Lord.
-You fired me up.
-God is good! You hear me?!
You got to teach these children!
Teach them about the law of the land.
You got to teach them about God.
You got to discipline them.
-You hear what I'm saying?
-Loud and clear.
You got to discipline them. You ain't
got to beat them and disrespect them.
But just talk to them nice
and let them know.
Hey, I'm the boss, you do what I say to do.
And how I said do.
See what I'm saying?
I've never been in debt in my life.
Never been there.
She just lost her brother. He got killed.
Oh yeah, she just told me.
-That's brutal.
-Amen baby.
-So these children get in deep…
-Excuse me.
…relationships and stuff
and they don't know how to get out of it.
-What's that?
They get in these bad relationships
and they don't know how to get out.
Sometimes they kill each other.
Because they ain't been taught nothing.
They ain't been teaching nothing.
-It all comes from the parenting.
-No love, no counseling, no nothing.
I wonder what this was.
You can see the columns here.
Spaced out in the front.
I'm sure a beautiful building.
And you can see the floor here.
That nice tile floor.
Not long ago.
Probably a bank I'm guessing.
People were walking in here.
The money was coming in.
The money was going out.
Or any local here tell us what this was.
Ah, that's too bad.
This is on the National Register
of Historic Places also.
Huh. What is that?
The plants growing from the inside?
Never seen anything like that.
Where the building is getting eaten out
by nature from the inside.
That is so wild.
Marianna, you're gonna see this though,
lines down.
Once you get off that main square
where we were,
it starts turning into this.
This is interesting.
There are actually
some really cute homes here.
I mean, you're getting this
for nothing in these parts.
This is just like literally
a quarter mile from
the downtown area.
I'm guessing these are
the business people
in and around Marianna
that have agricultural businesses.
I'm guessing that.
Don't know.
And it goes to this
pretty much immediately.
Alright guys, right here,
the end of last year,
there was a homicide
right at this intersection.
Chestnut and Alabama.
A 20 year old was shot and killed.
And unfortunately, you hear a lot of that
in some of these rougher parts
of Arkansas and across the Deep South.
Across the country.
You know, in the rougher neighborhoods
where something like
someone got shot over 20 bucks.
Something like that.
Saw it in Pine Bluff,
a video I did a few weeks ago.
Like the woman said,
sweeping earlier today.
It all comes from the parents,
the community, the schooling.
And if you don't have good parenting,
rewards, positivity, and consequences,
then things get out of line.
And you get that.
A 20 year old
who shouldn't have died, dying.
Okay, so this town,
I think we've seen enough.
Let's get off to the next town,
Helena-West Helena.
[country music]
[Peter] These are
pretty amazing machines, huh?
Yeah, technology's come a long way.
-So the Delta right now, the agriculture
is thriving for the most part, right?
Like people making good livings out here?
Well, it's been tough.
This past year was really tough.
Prices were not good.
It was just a tough year.
This equipment, everything's so expensive.
What's a tractor like that
costing out the door?
It's probably close to $400,000,
if not more.
-$400,000? Wow.
Probably a little more.
Commodity prices have stayed.
They're at the same price they would
probably had in the 40s and 50s for cotton.
Cotton this past year
was the 60 cent range.
-60 cent a pound?
-Yes.
So I see a lot of nice houses
here in the countryside.
A lot of nice properties.
So people are doing pretty well
out here, right?
Well, there's been some that's been
fortunate enough to have some good years.
It's a decent living.
It's a lot of hard work,
a lot of worry, a lot of stress.
-And stress with stuff
that's out of your control,
like commodity prices and the weather.
How much is your diesel here?
Well farm fuel's probably
in the $4.00 range.
Highway, road fuel's probably,
I hadn't looked, probably $5.00.
-Anything you'd want to tell the country
from a farmer's perspective?
I just don't think they realize
how important the agriculture is.
It comes from a farm.
It just don't show up at the grocery store.
-What do you think of
the solar panels coming in?
Driving in here from the highway,
coming into these fields,
what do you think on that?
I don't like it. If it was some land
that was pretty much useless,
won't grow any crops or anything,
I don't see a problem with it, but I hate
to see them put on good cropland.
-You know, I do too. It just like,
at a visceral level, it feels off
because this land
is where we get our food from.
To cover it all with panels
would take forever.
But if you're covering
some of that great land with panels…
-Sort of an industrial material…
-Yeah.
…on top that's toxic,
if it cracks or breaks,
it doesn't make sense to… like,
you don't want to ruin that soil, right?
Right.
-Put it in industrial areas,
top of buildings.
Right.
-Out in the desert.
-Yes, yes.
I just hate to see them go up,
but you know,
I guess as a landowner,
it's hard to turn that money down.
-Is it good?
-It's pretty good from what I hear.
-They make a good offer?
-I think it is.
I couldn't tell you exactly what it is.
So if someone said we'd love to
put solar panels on your field,
there's gonna be a price
for you eventually, right?
If they say five mil, you're gonna do it?
Well, every field that I work, I rent.
I don't own one piece of property.
I rent everything.
-Okay, but if you did own it?
If I did own it,
I don't think I could do it. No.
-Just out of principle?
-Yeah.
I won't say I wouldn't do it,
but you know, it's hard to…
You were put in that position,
you never know what the situation is.
-All of a sudden something happens,
unfortunately, you have health expenses,
some things happen in your life.
Someone said, here's five mil,
you don't have to work
on your field anymore.
It's tough to say no, right?
It would be tempting. It really would.
But I sure hate to see it.
-All right, sir.
Well, thank you for your work.
-We couldn't live without you guys.
-Appreciate it.
-Be careful.
-Thank you, sir.
[music continues]
All right, guys.
It just started getting hilly here.
You saw those homes coming into town.
Beautiful. Tons of property.
There's Helena and West Helena.
They came together in 2006.
I guess they have more power
in the county to have a bigger number
'cause the population,
like so many of these towns, has declined.
Median family income,
from what I read, was $46,000.
But check this out,
the median home prices here,
$42,000.
That's median.
Whoa, look at this.
This has got some beauties.
So, port town.
Cotton was huge here.
Blues came in strong in the 50s and 60s.
Very strong blues heritage, music heritage.
Still a festival going on here, I guess.
An agricultural economy
on the outskirts of town.
Some chemical manufacturing.
And then, this is it.
This is the downtown.
All right, guys.
I want to talk to you about something
happening behind the scenes to all of us.
Our personal data
gets hoovered up by data brokers
and sold all across the Internet.
So, earlier this year, I found
a solution to this problem, Incogni.
Incogni is a personal information
removal service
that wipes yourself from the Internet.
We have the right
to remove ourselves from these lists.
But to try to do this one by one
would be a full-time job.
I started using Incogni in February
and I've seen exceptional results.
Here's my dashboard where
I've been removed from 1,448 data brokers.
That is amazing.
And you can see here the data brokers
that have tried to poach
my personal information.
I currently have 237
that are being removed.
So, what you need to do
is sign up to Incogni
and they'll do the in the background work
of removing you from these websites.
So, I've received way less
spam emails, spam calls,
junk mail, which removes
one of life's biggest annoyances.
And since this is like whack-a-mole,
you can't just do this once and be done.
It's a constant process
and that's why having Incogni working
24-7, 365 in the background is crucial.
I strongly suggest
getting Incogni's unlimited plan,
which gives the option to request
custom removals from any website.
There's a huge discount
if you use my link
to get 60% off an annual plan.
Take back your personal data with Incogni.
Click on the link below,
incogni.com/santenello
to get 60% off their annual plan.
Now, back to the story.
Your family owns
that distillery right there?
Five years in July.
-What are you guys distilling?
I make vodka, gin, and a special whiskey
called Arkansas Brown with sweet potatoes.
-Nice.
So how is this town?
There's some businesses coming in,
obviously some businesses left.
Yeah, more or less.
Some major things going on,
I guess, you know, that way.
Maybe a grocery store,
maybe some renovated housing for students.
-Cool.
But five years ago when we just started,
there weren't barely anything.
But now there's more people like you
walking around the street as well.
But everyone who knows
this place from what it was
says that this was a mecca for life.
Again, 30, 40 years ago,
that's way before my time.
-30, 40 years ago?
-Mecca for life?
-Yeah.
Well, the street was bustling.
There were street lights
where there's stop signs now
because there was so much traffic.
-No way.
All these buildings
were businesses at some point.
Again, I think people enjoyed the town
back then more than they do now.
It's a circle. I think we're trying to
bring that circle around.
-It takes small business to come in.
-Yeah.
-So it's your mom and father that own it?
Me and my brother,
we work it, and they own it.
-It's a nice family business.
-That's cool. Take care.
You too.
You have an old shoe shop here.
State revenue office.
I don't know what revenue
they're pulling from down here.
And the Delta Dirt Distillery.
Oh, we're closed.
Buy appointment open but that looks cool.
Got all these cameras up here.
Check that out.
All the cameras in the light post.
First National Bank.
It's one of these
yellow line walking tours.
As in, can walk down
the middle of the road.
And you're in the way of nobody.
Wonder what this old grand building was.
Its massive columns. Maybe a hotel.
Just holes in the sides of buildings here.
You can see that old floor.
Maybe a pharmacy, general store.
So within recent years,
this place is known for crime.
95 homicides per 100,000.
Which puts it way above Little Rock,
Memphis, even St. Louis.
Now it's a much smaller town,
so we're talking per capita, obviously.
The US average is 5 per 100,000.
19 times the US average.
Looks to be one of the few businesses open.
-[woman] Hello, how you doing?
-Doing well. How are you doing?
Alright.
-Is this your business?
-Yes, sir.
-How's it going?
-It's going great.
I'm doing great. I'm making a Delta video.
-And I like to show small businesses.
-Okay, awesome.
-Represent.
-No problem.
So, how's it going?
-Everything's going great.
-That's cool.
Really, it's our thrift thing.
Muphet and Mysta Marketplace.
We've been in business now for a year.
I really appreciate the community
because they have been great
with the donations and supporting.
As you can see, they're shopping.
-Can you walk us around?
-Sure.
The idea of our business
was to give back to the community,
to make them feel good about shopping.
-Coming downtown to shop?
-Yeah.
Like bring some life down here
outside of gonna the bank
and gonna KIPP school, of course,
and getting some good barbecue.
I want them to feel, hey, I may not
can get it at the expensive store,
but I know
Muphet and Mysta Marketplace got it.
-And they're gonna give me a great deal.
-You have great deals?
-Yes.
-I mean, five bucks.
-You're not beating that.
The most expensive thing in my marketplace
would be my furniture.
You're not even out of 500 bucks,
you can get a whole living room set.
Okay, cool.
-I can remember
when I was a little girl and…
I would be excited to come down here
on Saturdays with my mom.
And we would start from
this end of Cherry,
where this statue is
down beside Miss Anne's.
-All the way at the end?
-All the way at the end.
And it would be just cars
before it was shut down.
-So we're talking late 80s?
-Yes.
That's wild. Okay, so what happened?
Well, I guess everybody started…
the older ones start,
you know, passing away
and the young ones started getting it.
And, you know, nobody really just had
the love and passion for it anymore.
I guess with us being always in
the light of being in the crime
and Helena is bad, you know, it's kind of
like a stigma that's on the city.
But really, I've been here my whole life
and Helena is not that bad.
It's affordable.
Everything is going up everywhere you go.
People are quick to say it's nothing here,
there are no jobs. I'm gonna leave.
Well, what I decided to do was
create a space where people can actually
look forward to something.
It's a small business.
But hey, we are creating a place
where you need something to do.
You can come in.
Volunteer work.
You know, I coordinate with the school.
If the kids come in and they want to do
some hours or something like that.
So it just starts small.
It may not be big.
Then my husband and I,
we brought the U-Haul business here.
-Oh, cool.
It was here before
but it wasn't on this side of town.
That has been a great success.
The community
has been very supportive.
That's great.
They've been supporting, showing that love.
I'm just glad that I can give it back.
-You got a great attitude.
-Thank you.
-I try to always stay positive.
-That's everything.
No matter what. Hey, it's not easy.
It's not easy at all, but you have to have
a positive mindset
to do something like this,
especially being an entrepreneur.
-Yeah. But you're making it.
-Exactly.
-You're getting by, paying your bills.
-Awesome.
-You know what I'm saying?
You don't just come out ballin' and rich.
It's about what you put in it.
And I've learned that what you put in it
is what you get out of it.
So, if you just go there and just do some…
you're gonna get some…
But if you go there
and you put intent behind it,
what you're expecting,
and you get to see that.
My intention was when people
come in here and shop with me,
they're walking out smiling
because they they got the best deals.
Yeah, I gotta say,
I'm all over the country.
-Wow.
-And I love architecture.
You guys have great architecture,
like it has such potential.
-Yes, it does.
-Right?
It takes people like you,
that, you know, are courageous,
and you sort of go for it, right?
And you plant a stake and
then other people are like,
"Maybe I can maybe do something
over there in that building."
And then it catches.
So if it went down that quickly,
there's the possibility.
Places are always doing like this.
-They're always cycling.
-Yes.
And so maybe it's at the bottom
coming up a little.
-Right.
-I don't know, it's my first time here.
It just takes time.
I don't want your first impression to be
oh God, it's crime, nothing there to do.
It has its
great features about it.
-Good people?
-Yes.
It's home, it's down South.
People I know, when I was a little girl.
You have some that's still around,
you know?
So it's just the wise, it's the charm here.
That's what makes me hang around.
-I like Arkansas.
-Yeah.
All right, guys, if you're coming through
here, you're on a great road trip.
You know, a lot of Europeans
see these videos.
I only know because I got the comments
from Germans, from Dutch people,
people from all over saying
"I went to some of those places."
and a lot of Americans too of course.
"And I had a great time."
So businesses like this could really
use your help.
Just coming in and buying something
or saying hi.
You know, people tend to like that.
Cause look, she's doing
a pretty hard thing here, I would think.
And I respect someone that does that.
In a place like this it's not easy.
Look at this beauty.
Oh wow.
"Sensational lounge."
Oh, look at those old tables and the bar.
Delta Que and Brew, Taste the hype.
Look at this set up.
Right, we're not getting in though.
It is a Monday.
I'm sure there's some good street activity
here when they're open.
Got some hoops over there.
And guys, I really make an effort
not to show kids up close
without their parents saying it's cool.
But you can see kids hanging out,
little hoops going on here.
We got the Red Ball Store.
Music, Delta Blues, big thing here.
But you can see
they're trying to bring people in.
They got this stage over here.
That's never a good sign when you see
the gang tags up on stop signs.
Then it just sort of dies off here.
Once you get off the main street.
And look,
the population's declined so much.
These buildings, people leave,
and then the demo unit
doesn't come in to take it all down.
They're just left
and that's why they start deteriorating.
Nature comes back, starts taking them over.
But all sorts of blues history here.
"Putting blues on the air.
It's King Biscuit time.
Pass the biscuits!
Sunshine Sunny Payne."
Got a water situation here.
Looks like a pipe burst.
Got an old motel here.
Cool old school 50s sign.
And people would come from all over
for the blues back in the day
when this place was thriving.
The economy was pumping.
Music filling the streets.
-Sir, how you doing?
-Hey, how you doing, man?
-Good. I'm trying to meet some locals.
-Okay.
I'm one of a locals.
-This is your funeral home?
How things going?
It's the Delta.
You're dealing with
the poorest county in the Arkansas.
The Delta is like,
to the people in Little Rock, Fayetteville,
and all of them,
it's like the forgotten area of the state.
-You guys feel forgotten out here?
-Yeah, we do.
A lot of the resources,
it's not coming this way.
You're dealing with 70% Black,
30% White, and then just the area.
So what they do,
they pull the resources away,
and they don't really come down.
The governor or none of that
comes down really in this area.
So anytime that you have poverty,
you're gonna have crime.
Probably the second most dangerous city
in the state of Arkansas.
-Pine Bluff, number one?
-Yeah, Pine Bluff.
-I was there.
-Yeah.
So it's the same thing, right?
-Nice people, though.
I mean, I was in and out.
I'm not living there, so I don't really
know. But I met a lot of nice people.
A lot of nice people here.
When I lived here, I didn't live here.
I lived in a little town called Alexa.
-It's in the country.
-I cruised through. That's nice.
Yeah, small town.
Now that's where everybody's migrating to.
There was a time when
they didn't want to come to the country.
And now everybody wants to because
you don't have that crime and people,
They're getting away from the city.
We had a lot of industries here
back in the day.
When you start getting into
lawsuits and people falling,
and everybody's trying to
get up on something, you know.
And the people, they just start leaving
because they didn't want their children,
after they finished school,
they have no job for them.
The parents had retired.
So what they did,
a lot of them sold their homes
and moved up in the hills
or moved out from West Helena.
-So who's committing most of the crime?
It's young men, right?
Right. Just a lot of break-ins.
Is it like 12-year-olds
to like 30-year-olds?
Teenagers.
A lot of gunfire
and it's just like Iraq at night.
-Do you hear it?
-Oh yeah, I hear it all the time.
It's all over the city
but it's usually over the levee area.
-Over the levee?
-Yeah, there's a levee right here.
You can see
the little crest part right there.
That's called the levee.
-So the one big employer in town,
chemical manufacturing, right?
-On the outskirts?
-Yeah.
And of course the Dough Boy
that makes the swimming pools.
-You can get a good job here.
-Yeah, yeah.
But the problem is
being able to pass a drug test.
And things like that,
see, that's sticky, you know?
-A lot of people can't pass it, huh?
-Can't pass a drug test.
Is weed in on that?
Weed, people all the time,
"We need to bring some jobs here."
Well, who the hell's gonna work them?
If you bring the jobs here,
who's gonna work them?
If you have some people
that's not learned enough, can't read,
that understand, because anytime that
you have poverty, you're gonna have crime.
I have a good life here.
I've been here 26 years.
I moved from New Jersey.
I was born and reared here,
but I came back and opened a business.
I've been in business 26 years.
We have a great living here,
because I mind my business.
I do what I have to do.
I don't get involved in anything else.
-Well, I appreciate you.
I'm making a video on the Delta,
and this is how we learn from the locals.
The ones that'll just
tell you the truth about it.
I'm Ced, man.
-Sid?
-Yeah, C-E-D.
Peter.
-Peter?
-Yeah.
Okay, I'm Ced.
You grew up here, Ced?
-Born and raised right here in Helena.
-All right, how is it?
-You like it?
-I love it.
-You love it?
-I love it. I love this city, man.
I get a peace of mind here.
I don't know about nobody else.
I got self-control over me.
I run my destiny.
What I want to do, I do.
You picked the right time to come.
Look how green these trees is.
-It's beautiful.
-This is the natural state.
Man, just ride through the outskirts.
I'm gonna cruise.
And get a clip of all this, man.
Film all this here, man.
All these good green trees, man. They here.
It's been a minute since I said it,
but it needs to be re-heard.
[raps] H-E-L-T-O-W-N is the new name
and true name of the city you're in.
Without a doubt, this part of South
has been labeled as Helltown.
I'm not telling a lie.
Helena has fell down because of what?
First of all, lack of occupation.
Second on the record,
the proper recreation.
Center for the teens to enter.
And third is words
that need a better educational system
so wisdom can show them exploitation.
For Helena's improvement,
that's the medication.
[speaks] When I first did that right there,
they didn't have a KIPP,
and they didn't have
the Boys and Girls Club.
It's real now.
-Mic drop.
-I'mma holla at you, man.
-All right, Pete.
-Take care, brother.
Most definitely.
I gotta say, Helena is like
no other place I've been in this world.
We haven't even drove around.
We gotta get around town.
I wanna show you guys some homes here.
I found some listings on Zillow.
One place is 10,000 square feet.
I'll show it to you.
I'll show you the price.
And another place,
super, super cheap,
and actually looks okay.
I got the Helena burrs in my socks.
All right, guys.
This home right here, for sale.
927 Cherry Street.
Four beds, two baths,
2,000 square feet for a price of
$16,400.
Needs some work, not gonna lie.
But $16,400.
Yeah, that thing's been blown out.
Oh, fire got it.
Fire got a lot of this stuff.
Nature's getting this one.
Then you go over here.
And it's new or lived in.
It looks like government housing.
Not for sure though.
You got a lot of those places down there.
Right over the levee.
So the flood came through here in 1927.
And washed out
a lot of this town, I believe.
And you can see this place
is up on stilts.
Ready for the next flood.
Tree came down on this one.
So much of this here, burnt down homes.
And this neighborhood,
five minutes away.
Okay, guys, this home right here,
four beds, five baths, 10,000 square feet.
It's got a pool.
$575,000.
That is $58 a square foot.
And I'm guessing this is where
the management lived back in the day.
For some of the companies in town.
The higher paying jobs.
Maybe now it's some of the people
that work at the chemical plant
on the outskirts of town.
There you go.
You want to have a 10,000 square foot home.
That's probably the cheapest price
you're gonna get one for.
Looks like a sink hole of sorts.
That's interesting.
Just…
the road.
Dropped down and…
Looks like it's been like that for a while.
First time I've seen that in America.
It's been like that for a long time?
I think ever since last year.
Last year?
We used to could go through there.
I think it's more like the
piping up under the ground.
They'll start on a project and stop.
-They started and then stopped?
-Yeah.
You live around here. How is it?
It ain't worth living in.
Don't move in?
You got a nice playground.
It is.
It's about the nicest thing over here.
-And this house I'm going
to check out up here.
Queen Anne thing over there.
That's beautiful.
It is.
That's where people go to get married
or have birthday parties and stuff at.
-That house over there?
-Okay, cool.
Yeah. It's nice.
Check out this beauty.
Pillow Thompson House.
Done in the Queen Anne style.
That is beautiful.
Unfortunately it's closed.
But look at all the curves.
All the ornate detail.
This town has
some serious architectural gems.
You just can't recreate
any of this stuff anymore.
It's never coming back.
You're never gonna get
that much detail and craft
in a home like that.
In those churches.
This would cost
so many millions to make these days.
-Sir, where are you from?
-India.
-Punjab, Rajasthan?
-Yeah.
-I'm Punjab.
-Punjab. Love Punjab.
-Best food in India, Punjabi, I love it.
-Yes, sir.
-How's business?
-It's good.
-It's good?
-Yes.
-You're one of the few shops in town?
-Yeah.
How long have you lived here for?
Almost 15 years, sir.
-15?
-Yes, sir.
What was it like 15 years ago?
-Same.
-Same thing?
Is it coming back
a little bit right now or not really?
-Same.
-Same, same?
-The whole time? Okay.
-The whole time.
Take care, sir.
"Thomas C. Hindman, 1828 to 1868."
A lot here, I'll read you a little bit.
"An advocate of secession.
A staunch advocate of Southern rights.
Hindman hated abolitionists
and believed that secession might be
the only hope in protecting slave property.
After Abraham Lincoln's election
to the presidency in 1860,
he actively campaigned for secession
and was instrumental
in taking Arkansas out of the Union."
It is called
the Confederate Soldier Cemetery.
This is one of these
old classic gravestones.
A lot of history here.
I've been to a lot of places that,
well, the people have left,
the jobs have left.
Does a place like this come back?
And why I love doing these videos,
other than just because
I'm curious and I love learning
and luckily I get to do this
and other people are interested,
but it's also preserving time and place.
So in 20, 30, 40 years,
hopefully they're still up online
and people can look back
and be like, wow,
look where things were at then.
Look where they're at now.
[country music]
[man] He'll just bark, no problem.
Oh, thank you.
-Can I walk out on this?
-Yeah.
You're more than welcome
to come out here if you want.
-I'd love to. Go around?
-Alright, I'm gonna bring you in here.
-You live out here?
-No, no, just a camp house.
-It's a camp house?
-Yeah, just a fishing place.
-Right off the road?
-Yeah, yeah.
I had no idea.
This is like deep Louisiana bayou.
-Oh yeah, Mississippi Delta.
-Oh, look at this.
That is beautiful.
This is amazing.
I could sit out here for an afternoon.
-It's a beautiful place.
You don't get any better sunset.
-Oh, I bet. I bet.
Here you go, guys.
Right off the side of the road.
Alright guys, last town for today.
Elaine, Arkansas.
Smaller town than Helena-West Helena.
Seems to be a similar tale.
Got a massive Baptist church there.
And the yellow line policy
is still in effect.
Where you can just do this.
-She's got something to say?
-Yeah, good meeting you.
-You too brother.
-Good to meet you.
Alright.
-Peter.
-Nice to meet you.
Mayor Lisa Hicks-Gilbert, City of Elaine.
-Okay. Are you a police officer?
-No, I'm the mayor.
Seriously?
-[laughter]
-I scored. Alright.
-There we go.
-Yes, I'm the mayor.
-That's cool.
So what's going on here these days?
Oh, a whole lot is going on here.
-A whole lot? Nice.
-Yeah.
People moving in? Business?
I'm not gonna say people are moving in.
But we hope to improve that coming up.
But one of the things that we have
just right here on Main Street,
we're starting to work on
some of our revitalization.
Just freshly painted Main Street here.
We're opening up a pocket park
down here at the American Legion building.
Wonderful donation to the city.
So we're adding a pocket park to it.
Upgraded the swings
and doing some things like that.
-Over here, bike trail.
-[car honks]
That's the trail head there.
-The bike trail is expanding.
-Okay, cool.
From Elaine, 40 miles, additional miles.
Down over to Arkansas City, over there.
-Did you grow up here?
-Born and raised.
Graduated high school.
-So when you were a kid, what was it like?
What was this street like?
Busy.
-Busy?
-Busy.
There were so many people here.
-It's the story of the Delta, huh?
-Yes, sir.
And that was back when
we had the school as well.
We  lost our schools
20 years ago this year.
I think when we lost our school,
that had a lot to do with it.
-People can't raise kids
if there's no school.
Yeah, they can't raise kids
and they're gonna go closer to the schools.
But when you look at it, you had,
at that time, maybe 20 bus drivers.
You had the teachers.
You had the administrators.
You had the custodians.
You had the maintenance people.
Those are all jobs.
And then the teachers.
They're probably, our kids now are bused
30 miles one way to school.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
So losing our schools
definitely took a toll on the community.
-But you're putting some energy back in.
I'm working on it.
We're just gonna have to reimagine
what we hope Elaine can be.
-What about some food? Any food in town?
We do have, the diner's probably closed.
-Okay.
Usually there's the diner open
but I think it's closed now.
-I'm just gonna cruise around.
Is that cool?
-Oh, that's fine. Help yourself.
-Before you leave…
-Yeah.
Because I want you to come back.
-All right. Thank you.
When we finish this.
Right across the way here,
this used to be the Cromrod store.
And as you can see, we're putting
birdhouses and what we're creating there
as part of our tourism
and our economic development,
we're creating birdhouse museum
across the windows there.
Hopefully we can get the governor,
get Governor Sanders to come
and declare us and you'll see our sign,
America's Birdhouse Capital.
-You're going for it?
-Yeah. We're going for it.
America's Birdhouse Capital.
-Yeah.
And we got AT&T
to leave the old pay phone in there.
So no, it doesn't have a dialtone.
It would be cool if it had.
-Wouldn't it? [laughs]
-Yeah.
-But it's just cool to see these, huh?
-Yeah. Yeah.
So we're working on some things here.
-Cool.
-Yes, sir.
-Thank you, Mayor.
-Thank you for coming.
-All the best.
-All right.
Hello, officer.
How are things going these days?
-Ain't nothing major going down here.
Everybody down here is families.
Ain't nothing really going on.
-That's awesome.
-It's quiet.
I come here from 5:00 to 10:00,
ready to make sure
everybody's safe down here.
That's it.
But there ain't no crime down here.
Come down here in the middle of the night
and drop a pin on the ground.
That's how quiet it is.
[birds chirping]
-Smart laundry mat?
-Yeah.
Okay.
This is my phone, right?
-Oh, so you're at home
controlling all of this?
-Yeah. 'Cause the other one got burned up.
-Your other laundry mat got burned up?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
So I had to improve it.
-Mr. Beal is fixing stuff?
Yeah. I come out here… fix it.
[woman giggles]
Oh, your monitoring.
-How's crime?
Is there much crime or no?
-No. Not really.
Not a whole lot of crime.
But they set my laundry mat on fire.
-They set it on fire?
-Mm-hmm.
-When did that happen?
-July the 10th.
-Oh.
-Last year.
[woman] Small, suppressed town.
[Peter] But you're
making something out of it?
-Yeah.
-You're making a go?
I'm trying. It's hard.
And I work.
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday,
at Lennox in Stuttgart.
Building air conditioning.
-I believe your belt's worn out.
-Oh.
It's spinning, but it ain't catching.
-You're from here?
-Yeah.
Okay, what was it like growing up?
It was a lot more.
Everybody moved away.
Why didn't you take off?
I was the one that stayed
and took care of mama.
Yup.
Now I'm ready to go
'cause my kids done got grown.
-They grown?
The school shut down here though, huh?
Yeah.
And my daughter graduated
on the 13th from Phillips
at the RN program.
-Okay. Congrats.
So she's moving to Little Rock.
-Congrats. I was just there.
Mm-hmm.
She's gonna be working at Baptist.
She's got a job offer there.
-You pretty happy about that?
-Yeah.
I used to tell her all the time that
why leave?
You know, get your degree and leave.
You can make something happen here.
She always wanted
to be a nurse all her life.
-Okay.
So I always wanted her to be like,
start a nursing home.
You a nurse?
Even if you start with eight people.
I raised… well, I'm gonna say I raised,
I'm raising my mama now.
'Cause she got dementia
and she has Alzheimer's.
So I'm kind of keeping her now.
And it be times where I just need
a break for about a week or so.
And that'll be good, you know,
to have a place
where you can drop them off
and be all right for at least a week.
Yeah. Is there anything like that out here?
No. [scoffs]
No.
And she wanted to stay
and then it's just like
a lot of hate, suppression.
And she afraid if she try to,
you know, do stuff here,
people will, you know,
just like report false accusations.
And sometimes you gotta
prove your innocence.
You get a lawyer 'cause
here in Phillips County,
they can really accuse you.
Fill out an affidavit,
accuse you of something that you didn't do.
-And then you got to get a lawyer.
-Who does that?
Your people.
-Oh, the community, someone in town.
-Yeah.
They don't like you
'cause they think you better,
but you're really not better than them,
you just want different.
So you think different.
-Okay, so yeah,
if you want to better yourself,
then some people don't like that.
Right.
-Okay.
It's a little hate, right.
This town is
really fighting with each other.
-Really?
-Yeah.
-As we speak?
-Mm-hmm.
-Is it like Bloods and Crips stuff or what?
No. No, it's not.
It's more of…
with the Black community, we don't?
We don't uplift each other.
We feel like
'cause you want to do something,
they feel like with the mayor,
she got going on.
It's a lot of Black people don't like
what she doing because they not doing it.
-I just met her.
Yeah.
-She seems pretty fired up on the town.
-Yeah.
I'll tell you one thing,
she did more for this little small town
than anybody I have ever seen done.
-In all your years?
-In all my years.
-That's so cool.
-And she got grants.
The mayor don't get paid nothing here.
I think $700 or something.
-A month?
-A month.
-Ouch.
Yeah. How can you live off that?
And she, I know, put in 40 hours.
I don't agree with everything she does.
-But…
-That's life, yeah.
Yeah. I respect her.
-But she cares about the town?
-Yeah, I think she cares about it.
-Alright.
Yeah, 'cause we got a water grant.
Have you seen our water tower?
The worst water tower
in the United States.
Main Street divides,
still divides even to this day.
Black side, White side.
It's like two Black people
that stay on this side of the town.
Black people stay over here,
no White people.
-So if I cross the Main Street,
it's just gonna be Whites over there?
Pretty much. Just two people.
You guys don't get along?
It's not that they don't get along.
It's kind of like that secret.
You know?
You don't see any White kids and Black kids
playing with each other here.
Like, you will never see.
Like, no more than softball.
They'll come get Black kids
to participate in
T-ball and softball
because it's not enough here.
But as far as you seeing White kids
and Black kids riding they bikes together,
that will never happen.
-Why is it still like that here
do you think?
I think it's embedded in people
and it's just like nobody here
that's really trying to break the cycle.
I actually bought a house over there.
-You live over there?
-Yeah.
-They're cool with you living over there?
-Not really.
Why'd you move over there?
Um, I think because, one,
that's where the house was for sale at.
And I'm determined.
If I can't, I can show you I can.
You know, you tell me I can't
have this or I can't do that,
-…that's my motivation, to do it.
-That's why I like you.
-I'm the same way.
-Yeah.
It's a big, big thing here,
racism.
But you get along with him.
Yeah, I get along
with a lot of White people.
-But he's cool with you?
-Yeah.
-Okay, so it's not everyone, obviously.
He's not from here. He's from DeWitt.
Where's that?
It's about 45 miles from here.
-So it's totally different there?
-Totally different.
-Okay, so it really depends
the town you're in in the Delta,
where those dynamics take play?
Right.
The lady, she was telling me
that she was gonna sell the house.
And every time she get ready
to sell it to somebody Black,
somebody White'll try to get it.
They'll be like, "I'm gonna get it."
and finally she sold it to me.
So that's how
I got my first house over there.
-If you don't mind me asking,
how much did you buy it for?
-$40,000.
-40 grand?! Wow.
So a house in this town,
you can get for 40 grand?
Yeah.
-Even cheaper, right?
-Well, you could. Yeah.
But there's no houses here.
Nothing for sale?
Nothing for sale 'cause nobody's
putting nothing back into this town.
-So it's just deteriorating.
-But it's up to you guys.
-Yeah, it's up to us.
-No one from the outside
is gonna save the day.
No. That's why I put in three tiny houses.
He came in and wired my third tiny house.
-Okay.
And I already had two.
They on Allen Street,
the street behind the Dollar General.
-I'll check them out.
-Check them out.
-They're new ones.
-Yeah. They like sheds.
And I turned them into Airbnbs.
-Airbnbs?
-Yeah. You should stay there.
-People are coming here?
In the wintertime I attract
a lot of out-of-state hunters.
-Oh, the hunters come in?
-Yeah. They come in and hunt.
-So this is how you started it?
-Mm-hmm.
'Cause property go real cheap here.
-Blood, sweat, and tears.
First tiny house Airbnb, 85% completed.
You got all these guys
to help you bring it in.
-Where do people work here in town?
-Out of town.
Like, I work in Stuttgart.
And that's like an hour and 25 minutes.
-You drive an hour and 25 each way?
-Uh, yeah.
-These gas prices killing you?
-Yes.
TJ, love the fire.
-Thank you.
-Best of luck.
I'm getting ready to leave though.
-Town?
-Yes.
-You gonna sell your Airbnbs?
-No.
I'mma keep them.
I might come back
when I get about 30 years older.
Ma'am, TJ told me this side of Main Street,
everyone's Black,
that side, everyone's White.
-But you're on the Black side.
-Yeah.
-How is it?
-It's great to me!
It don't bother me at all.
It don't bother them. They all my friends.
-That's cool.
And you got your friend off camera.
I understand.
-No. She don't want to be on there.
-Okay.
So, not a problem at all for you?
Nope.
-That's cool.
We get along good.
She's my best friend.
That's my granddaughter right there.
-Oh, nice.
-My great-granddaughter. Yeah.
We all cool here.
-[chuckles]
-Did you grow up here?
I grew up at Snow Lake.
That's way down the road.
-Do you like Elaine?
Yeah. Pretty good.
And these are TJ's places?
Yeah. That's TJ's place right there.
-Take care, ma'am.
-You too.
All the best.
-Yeah. Thank you.
-Yeah, guys.
It's always a process of discovery.
And that's what keeps me
doing this work because,
look, I go into these towns,
I have no idea what I'm coming into.
For example, Elaine, what TJ said.
Here are her tiny homes.
She's renting three of them.
She's gonna do more she said.
But that's so cool.
Super simple. Straightforward.
That looks like
a brand new one right there.
So here it is,
Main Street, the dividing line
in Elaine.
With a few exceptions.
Look, I don't have
all the information on this story.
We'll see if we can
talk to someone on this side.
Oh, that poor dog's got a hurt leg.
What a beautiful dog.
That bums me out.
Okay, guys, so I'm glad I talked to you.
You guys don't want to be on camera,
but you're saying
that's not the case over here.
Your neighbor's Black over here,
your neighbor's Black over here?
-Everybody lives…
-It's cool.
…next ext door to each other.
There's so many interracial couples here.
It's not like it used to be.
-Okay.
-Not at all.
It's modern.
More modern now than it was.
And I love Black women, so… [laughs]
You do?
-Now I'm out of here.
-[laughter and car starting]
[engine revs]
I kept you off camera, bro. Thank you.
[car speeds away]
That was funny.
So there you go, guys.
I'm not gonna get to
the total bottom of the story but…
those guys were cool and they're like,
"I got Black friends and neighbors."
So I guess it really depends
who you talk to here
of what's going on.
I'm not gonna fully understand this town
in an hour.
But, hey, we got a little preview
of what it looks like.
And it is small town, country Delta living.
All right, guys. What an adventure today.
We went deep Arkansas Delta.
Didn't see it all, but definitely got
a good experience today.
Learned a lot from the locals.
Saw a lot.
And unfortunately,
this is the end of the Arkansas series.
Five videos in total.
And it's been quite a journey.
I've loved it.
I've really loved this state.
It's been a surprise.
It's full of amazing people.
Hospitality.
There are challenges like we saw today.
And there are places like
Northwestern Arkansas,
like a different universe economically.
And a lot in between.
So check out those other videos.
I want to thank you,
all the locals here in the state
that brought me in,
told me your stories, showed me around.
And also you, the audience, for watching.
Thanks for coming along on this journey.
Until the next one.
[country music]